# GEOS 472 Lab 1

Reflective analysis: 
My goal for this interactive map is to showcase the unemployment rates across each province/territory in Canada. The audience for which this map was created and symbolized is for the government of Canada and respective public general audiences.
The purpose is to show the audience and emphasize regions that have the highest unemployment rates in Canada. The zoom extent of the map is initially set to see all of Canada, but to make it interactive and to enable users of this map to compare the unemployment rates of the smaller provinces, I added zoom controls to the map. The data for unemployment rates for 2021 was collected from multiple sources including Statistics Canada and Northwest Territories Bureau of Statistics. To symbolize this data, I created manual natural breaks in the data and used choropleth symbology. 
The base map was chosen to be a simple base map background so that a general public audience would be able to understand the map at first glance. I included the province/territory names as the data compared these areas and added a thin border around each of these as some provinces were difficult to differentiate without the border. I also included some contextual layers to provide more information, such as names of countries and waterbodies. To emphasize the provinces/territories with higher unemployment rates, I chose a bright red colour whereas those with lower unemployment rates, a pale yellow. This helped the visual hierarchy of the map using darker shades of red to bring a higher focus. The surrounding areas of Canada where data was not included was given a light grey colour so the focus of the viewer would go to the country of focus(Canada). Improvements to this map can include adding other variables such as population and average age for each province and territory, as well as making the map more interactive.

